DOCS-8181-4.3-tuning-build-app-kt (#1435)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/build-app-practices.adoc

= Best Practices to Build Mule Applications
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> As you build your applications, consider the following best practices for creating a clean, organized, and sustainable project. These practices include guidelines on using Anypoint Studio, avoiding certain building app issues, and specific settings for using Mule runtime engine (Mule) components and connectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you build your applications, consider the following best practices for creating a clean, organized, and sustainable project. These practices include guidelines on using Anypoint Studio, avoiding certain app-building issues, and specific settings for using Mule runtime engine (Mule) components and connectors.
```

== Anypoint Studio Best Practices
If you use Anypoint Studio to build Mule apps, consider the following practices:

* Update to the latest version of Anypoint Studio.
* Use the recommended Java version (OpenJDK) for the specific Studio version.
* Include the Mule Maven plugin for automated deployment (executed by CI/CD processes).

> 

Reviewer: Questions about topic hierarchy:

== Anypoint Studio Best Practices
     Latest version
     OpenJDK version
     MM plugin
=== Define a Project Structure. ***How does this solitary subtopic relate to the list comprising the main topic? Should it be added to the list above?***
==== Add Indentation and Formatting
==== Manage Properties per Environment
== Tip while Building Apps. ***Why is this not a peer Best Practice: "App-Building Best Practice"?***
== Components and Connectors Best Practices
=== APIkit
=== DataWeave
.
.
... (so many! Maybe this should be a settings reference topic some day....)
==See Also

Reviewer: I'd need to spend more time with this text, but I wonder if there is some way that we can balance out the best practices. Studio and app-building are so sparse, and connection and component so extensive.

Reviewer: rest copyedited only

Reviewer: Maybe for later, I wonder if it is misleading to start the next three titles with an imperative (Define, Add, and Manage) when they are not Tasks?

=== Define a Project Structure
To help maintain a clean, structured, and readable project in Anypoint Studio, consider the following recommendations:

> * Create a separate XML for global elements, for example configuration elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a separate XML file for global elements, for example, configuration elements.
```
XML or XML file or XML files? GLOBAL

> * Create a separate XML for each use case or resource implementation.

Reviewer: file?
```suggestion
* Create a separate XML file for each use case or resource implementation.
```

* Create separate XML files for common structures or logic.
* Create different packages for resources such as DataWeave, WSDLs, examples, and so on.

> 

Reviewer: Does your audience know how the fourth list item, different packages, relates to the three previous items about separate XML or XML files?

==== Add Indentation and Formatting

As you build your app project in Anypoint Studio, consider the following points:

> * Add indentation and format to all your XML (Mule XMLs, `pom.xml`, `log4j2.xml`, etc) files before committing to the source code repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add indentation and format to all your XML files (Mule XML files, `pom.xml`, `log4j2.xml`, and so on) before committing to the source code repository.
```

> * Define a line width in your Anypoint Studio XML editor preferences, for example 140.d.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Define a line width in your Anypoint Studio XML editor preferences, for example, `140.d`.
```

* Define a naming convention.

> ==== Manage Properties per Environment

Reviewer: Is this title misleading? Aren't we saying that "per Environment" is NOT the way to manage properties, and that 
Manage Environment Properties Using Anypoint Runtime Manager is the point of the topic?

> To avoid the need to create variables per environment, Mule 4 contains a built-in mechanism that enables you to set default values. The recommended approach is to manage the properties via Anypoint Runtime Manager. For details see xref:intro-configuration.adoc[Introduction to Mule 4: Configuring Mule Apps] and xref:configuring-properties.adoc[Configuring Properties].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid creating a separate set of variables for each environment, Mule 4 contains a built-in mechanism that enables you to set default values, which you manage by using Anypoint Runtime Manager. For details, see xref:intro-configuration.adoc[Introduction to Mule 4: Configuring Mule Apps] and xref:configuring-properties.adoc[Configuring Properties].
```

> == Tip while Building Apps

Reviewer: parallelism
```suggestion
== App-Building Best Practice
```

> As you build your Mule app, avoid packaging the configuration files for all the environments inside the application. Instead, use a `.yaml` file to provide defaults properties, and use Anypoint Runtime Manager to override each of these properties at deployment time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you build your Mule app, avoid packaging the configuration files for all the environments inside the application. Instead, use a `.yaml` file to provide default properties, and use Anypoint Runtime Manager to override each of these properties at deployment time.
```
Doesn't this just repeat ==== Manage Properties per Environment?
Consider combining and omitting this separate BP for app-building.

== Components and Connectors Best Practices

When building your apps using Mule components and connectors, consider the following recommendations.

=== APIkit

When using APIkit, consider these practices:

* Use APIkit features to generate flows automatically using your API specification.

> * Use APIkit Exception Strategy to catch connector related exceptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use APIkit Exception Strategy to catch connector-related exceptions.
```

=== DataWeave

When using DataWeave for building your app, consider these recommendations:

> * Use inline scripts on the development phase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use inline scripts during the development phase.
```

> * To have a clean XML and reusable scripts, pass the inline scripts to an external file .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To have a clean XML and reusable scripts, pass the inline scripts to an external file.
```

=== Flows
When creating flows for your app, consider the following practices:

* Have a clear flow diagram showing the steps of the use case.

> * Use Flow reference to separate and reuse common logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use a Flow Reference component to separate and reuse common logic.
```
or
```suggestion
* Use Flow Reference to separate and reuse common logic.
```

=== File Connector

If you use Anypoint Connector for File (File Connector) and share part of the path on numerous reads or any other file operations, extract the base path into a file configuration to reuse it:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<file:config name="File_Config" >
   <file:connection workingDir="/Example/path" />
</file:config>

<flow>
   <file:read config-ref="File_Config" path="manual.txt" />
   <file:read config-ref="File_Config" path="readme.txt" />
</flow>
----

=== HTTP and HTTPS

> For HTTP and HTTPS, use the following placeholders depending on the deployment model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For HTTP and HTTPS, use the following placeholders, depending on the deployment model:
```

* `${http.port}` +

> When deploying to CloudHub or Hybrid using HTTP (port=8081) or HTTPS (port=8082).

Reviewer: no period; not a sentence
```suggestion
When deploying to CloudHub or Hybrid using HTTP (port=8081) or HTTPS (port=8082)
```

* `${http.private.port}` +

> When deploying to CloudHub using HTTP (port=8091) or HTTPS (port=8092) and using a Dedicated Load Balancer.

Reviewer: ditto
```suggestion
When deploying to CloudHub using HTTP (port=8091) or HTTPS (port=8092) and using a Dedicated Load Balancer
```

=== Apache Kafka Connector

> If you use Anypoint Connector for Apache Kafka (Apache Kafka Connector) consider the following points:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Anypoint Connector for Apache Kafka (Apache Kafka Connector), perform the following actions:
```

* Use the `.properties` file to add bootstrap server configuration.

> * Add property placeholders either in `.yaml` or `.properties` files, and use the file in the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add property placeholders, either in a `.yaml` or a `.properties` file, and use the file in the configuration:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
config.bootstrapServers={your Kafka Server address}
config.consumerPropertiesFile=consumer.properties
config.producerPropertiesFile=producer.properties
# Consumer specific information
consumer.topic=one-replica
consumer.topic.partitions=1
----

> * Apache Kafka Connector provides various settings for producer and consumer, add your own settings in `consumer.properties` and `producer.properties` under `src/main/resource`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Although Apache Kafka Connector provides various settings for producer and consumer operations, add your own settings in `consumer.properties` and `producer.properties` under `src/main/resource`:
```
